📄 Webhook guide #2: Auto-ReTrain (#629)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/hub/webhooks-guide-auto-retrain.md

# Webhook guide: Setup an automatic system to re-train a model when a dataset changes

> This guide will guide you through the set up of an automatic training pipeline on the HuggingFace platform,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will help walk you through the set up of an automatic training pipeline on the HuggingFace platform
```

> using HF Webhooks, Spaces and AutoTrain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using HF Datasets, Webhooks, Spaces and AutoTrain.
```

> We will build a Webhook that listen to changes on an image classification dataset, and triggers a fine-tuning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will build a Webhook that listens to changes on an image classification dataset and triggers a fine-tuning
```

> of [microsoft/resnet-50](https://huggingface.co/microsoft/resnet-50) using [AutoTrain](https://huggingface.co/autotrain).

Reviewer 2: pinging @abhishekkrthakur too! this is quite cool!

For distribution/growth, we should do more of those type of API integrations using AutoTrain in the coming months IMO, cc @Michellehbn @gary149 too

> ## Pre-requisite: upload your dataset to the Hub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisite: Upload your dataset to the Hub
```

> We will use a [simple image classification dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sbrandeis-test-org/input-dataset) for the sake

Reviewer 3: I wonder if it's worth it to put them in some special org (maybe https://huggingface.co/huggingface-projects ?)

Reviewer 2: (personal repos is fine for guides and doc IMO, gives a more personal touch)

Reviewer 2: (but no need to switch back...)

of the example. Learn more about uploading your data to the Hub here: https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/upload_dataset.

![dataset](../assets/auto-retrain/dataset.png)

## Create a webhook to react to the dataset's changes

First, let's create a webhook from your settings: https://huggingface.co/settings/webhooks.

- Select your dataset as the target repository. We will target [sbrandeis-test-org/input-dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sbrandeis-test-org/input-dataset) in this example.

> - You can put a dummy Webhook URL for now. Defining your webhook will let you take a look at the events that are going to be sent to it (and you can replay them, which will be useful for debugging).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can put a dummy Webhook URL for now. Defining your webhook will let you take a look at the events that are going to be sent to it. You can also replay them, which will be useful for debugging!
```

> - Input a secret as it will be more secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Input a secret to make it more secure.
```

- Subscribe to "Repo update" events as we want to react to data changes

Your webhook will look like this:

![webhook-creation](../assets/auto-retrain/webhook-creation.png)

## Create a Space to react to your webhook

> We now need a way to react to your webhook events. An easy way is to use a [Space](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/spaces-overview)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now need a way to react to your webhook events. An easy way to do this is to use a [Space](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/spaces-overview)!
```

> ![webhook-creation](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/hub/webhooks-guides/002-auto-retrain/webhook-creation.png)

Reviewer 2: very small nit but it might be better to take screenshot on a mac os machine for consistency with rest of the doc, IF you have one :) (no big deal otherwise...)

Reviewer 2: boooooooooooooooo

> You can find an example Space here: https://huggingface.co/spaces/sbrandeis-test-org/active-learning-webhook/tree/main.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can find an example Space [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sbrandeis-test-org/active-learning-webhook/tree/main).
```

This Space uses Docker, Python, [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) and [uvicorn](https://www.uvicorn.org) to run a simple HTTP server. Read more about Docker Spaces [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/spaces-sdks-docker).

> The entry point is [src/main.py](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sbrandeis-test-org/auto-retrain/blob/main/src/main.py). Let's walk through this file and details what it does:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The entry point is [src/main.py](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sbrandeis-test-org/auto-retrain/blob/main/src/main.py). Let's walk through this file and detail what it does:
```

1. It spawns a FastAPI app that will listen to HTTP `POST` requests on `/webhook`:

```python
from fastapi import FastAPI

# [...]
@app.post("/webhook)
async def post_webhook(
	# ...
):
	# ...
```

2. This route checks that the `X-Webhook-Secret` header is present, and that its value is the same as the one you set in your webhook's settings:

```python
# [...]

> WEBHOOK_SECRET = os.getenv("WEBHOOK_SECRET")

Reviewer 4: Does this have to be the same secret defined in repository? Maybe note if so 🙂

Author: Good point - I added a note about that!

		raise HTTPException(401)
	if x_webhook_secret != WEBHOOK_SECRET:
		raise HTTPException(403)
	# [...]
```

3. The event's payload is encoded as JSON. Here, we'll be using pydantic models to parse the event payload. We also specify that we will run our webhook only when:
- the event concerns the input dataset
- the event is an update on the repo's content, i.e. there has been a new commit

```python
# defined in src/models.py
class WebhookPayloadEvent(BaseModel):
	action: Literal["create", "update", "delete"]
	scope: str

class WebhookPayloadRepo(BaseModel):
	type: Literal["dataset", "model", "space"]
	name: str
	id: str
	private: bool
	headSha: str

class WebhookPayload(BaseModel):
	event: WebhookPayloadEvent
	repo: WebhookPayloadRepo

# [...]

@app.post("/webhook)
async def post_webhook(
	# [...]
	payload: WebhookPayload,
	# ^ Pydantic model defining the payload format
):
	# [...]
	if not (
		payload.event.action == "update"
		and payload.event.scope.startswith("repo.content")
		and payload.repo.name == config.input_dataset
		and payload.repo.type == "dataset"
	):
		# no-op if the payload does not match our expectations
		return {"processed": False}
	#[...]
```

> 4. If the payload is valid, the next step is to create a project on AutoTrain, schedules a fine tuning of the input model (`microsoft/resnet-50` in our example) on the input dataset, and create a discussion on the dataset when it's done!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If the payload is valid, the next step is to create a project on AutoTrain, schedule a fine tuning of the input model (`microsoft/resnet-50` in our example) on the input dataset, and create a discussion on the dataset when it's done!
```

```python
def schedule_retrain(payload: WebhookPayload):
	# Create the autotrain project
	try:
		project = AutoTrain.create_project(payload)
		AutoTrain.add_data(project_id=project["id"])

> 		AutoTrain.start_processing(project_id=project["id"])

Reviewer 2: you don't go over how to import or define `class AutoTrain ` to interact with AutoTrain through its API but i guess it's on purpose? as it's not the focus of this guide?

Reviewer 2: (maybe at some point we should revive the SDK to expose a super simple wrapper. Or even just put it inside `huggingface_hub`... cc @Wauplin @abhishekkrthakur ) or just link to a Gist with the code..

Author: > you don't go over how to import or define class AutoTrain  to interact with AutoTrain through its API but i guess it's on purpose? as it's not the focus of this guide?

Correct!

Reviewer 2: (there's a lot of code in https://github.com/huggingface/autotrain-advanced public repo but i'm not sure everything is still needed or up to date)

	except requests.HTTPError as err:
		print("ERROR while requesting AutoTrain API:")
		print(f"  code: {err.response.status_code}")
		print(f"  {err.response.json()}")
		raise
	# Notify in the community tab
	notify_success(project["id"])
```

> Visit the link inside the comment to review the eventual training cost, and start fine-tuning the model!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit the link inside the comment to review the training cost estimate, and start fine-tuning the model!
```

![community tab notification](../assets/auto-retrain/notification.png)

In this example, we used HuggingFace AutoTrain to quickly fine-tune our model, but you can of course plug in your own training infrastructure!

Feel free to duplicate the Space to your personal namespace and play with it.
You will need to provide two secrets:
- `WEBHOOK_SECRET` : the secret from your webhook.
- `HF_ACCESS_TOKEN` : a User Access Token with `write` rights. You can create one [from your settings](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens).

You will also need to tweak the [`config.json` file](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sbrandeis-test-org/active-learning-webhook/blob/main/config.json) to use the dataset and model of you choice:

```json
{
	"target_namespace": "the namespace where the trained model should end up",
	"input_dataset": "the dataset on which the model will be trained",
	"input_model": "the base model to re-train",
	"autotrain_project_prefix": "A prefix for the AutoTrain project"
}
```

![duplicate-space](../assets/auto-retrain/duplicate-space.png)

## Configure your webhook to send events to your Space

> Last but not least, you need to configure your webhook to send POST requests to your Space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last but not least, you'll need to configure your webhook to send POST requests to your Space.
```

Let's first grab our Space's "direct URL" from the contextual menu. Click on "Embed this Space" and copy the "Direct URL".

![embed this Space](../assets/auto-retrain/embed.png)
![direct URL](../assets/auto-retrain/direct-url.png)

> And update your webhook to send requests to that URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update your webhook to send requests to that URL:
```
